Lin, Moody, Yun 
CS 1050 Final Project Proposal: AI-Assisted Privacy Policy Parsing 
Brian Lin, Jackson Moody, Sein Yun
Problem Definition: Online services require users to consent to lengthy privacy policies and terms of service (often filled with lots of jargon) before they can use a product. Most users blindly accept these “Terms and Conditions” without reading them. However, these privacy policies often contain important information about how personal data will be collected and used. We want to solve this problem by creating an AI-assisted chatbot that provides additional transparency between users and the policies that they accept – our goal is to transform how users understand and manage their personal data.
Project Description: Our final project will be a working Chrome Extension prototype that demonstrates automated detection, summarization, and Q&A on real privacy policy pages. In class, we were particularly intrigued by the discussion around privacy policies and their interpretability. Analyzing the privacy policies of different companies for the “Privacy Policy” assignment, we found that many privacy policies are extremely long and difficult to read, which leads many users to simply accept the terms and conditions without thinking of the implications. In order to address this issue, we want to build a Chrome Extension that provides more transparency into what happens when you accept the terms of a service. Whenever the extension detects an option to accept the terms and conditions of an application, it will automatically overlay an AI-generated summary. This overlay will clearly describe the major privacy considerations that users should be aware of when using this service, as well as the primary privacy tradeoffs they need to be comfortable with. Users will also be able to ask follow-up questions about the terms in a chat-style interface. By providing this information at the moment that the user is accepting the terms and conditions, we hope to enable people to make more informed decisions about their personal privacy. 
Group Collaboration and Work Ethics: Jackson, Brian, and Sein are the sole authors of this project. No experimentation on human subjects will be conducted; all text and data will be analyzed from publicly available privacy policies. Therefore, approval from an Institutional Review Board is not required. 
Technical Implementation: Implementing this project will involve building a Chrome Extension capable of reading on-screen privacy policies and terms of service, calling a large language model provider, and displaying an AI-generated overlay and chat interface atop the page. Specifically, we will write the Chrome Extension using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, and read on-screen content using a library like Mozilla Readability to extract the main text from policy pages (with PDF.js for embedded PDFs). We will then sanitize the extracted HTML with DOMPurify, or fall back to the full-DOM text if parsing fails.  
After extracting the text of the privacy policy and terms of service, we will send this information to an external LLM provider such as OpenAI or Anthropic (depending on which one performs better at this particular task). Using a service worker, we will send the full text of the privacy policy along with a specific prompt telling the LLM how to best summarize and analyze the document. We will then utilize streaming responses to display the response in the Chrome Side Panel API. In addition to viewing the AI summary, users will also be able to toggle an expandable chat interface to ask specific questions about the policy presented on their screen. By sending these questions within the same conversation as the one used to initially generate the AI summary, we will ensure that the LLM is able to provide a fully contextualized and relevant response—displaying a concise summary, major risks, and links that scroll to/highlight original clauses in the terms of service.